# GranularBridge

-------------------
GENERAL INFORMATION
-------------------


1. Title of Dataset:  Tensile Strength of Cohesive Granular Bridges


2. Authors: Paul Sánchez


3. Contact information:  diego.sanchez-lana@colorado.edu


4. Date of data collection: 18-Dec-2025


--------------------------
SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION
-------------------------- 


1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: In Copyright - CC-BY 4.0


2. Links to publications that cite or use the data: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-7153830/v1 (This is a preprint, the paper would be published in Nature Communications)


3. Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data:


4. Recommended citation for the data:


---------------------
DATA & FILE OVERVIEW
---------------------

The data produce by the simulations were produced by LMGC90, the complete documentation can be found online (https://lmgc90.pages-git-xen.lmgc.univ-montp2.fr/lmgc90_dev/).  Instructions for download, dependencies, installation as we as a bried guide to use the code (an also documentation on every command available) can be found there.


In the main folder there are two python scripts that will tell the simulation code (LMGC90) what to do.

particles.ini : this file contains basic information about the particles of the bridge: 
        - l1: Number of particles 
        - l2: Minimum diameter in cm 
        - l3: Maximum diameter in cm 
        - l4: y/x ratio 
        - l5: z/x ratio 
        - l6: Particle shape, 0=sphere, 1=polyhedron
        - l7: Constant cohesive force in N
        - l8: Force[0] or Velocity[1] used to pull boulders

gen_sam-bridge2.5.py : this script generates the sample using the information from particles.ini.  Here, the particles are given their material charactaristics (size, shape, density, cohesive attraction, coefficients of friction and restitution).  It will generate the DATBOX folder.  This folder will be over-written if this script is run again.  This script also generates a file called parameters.dat which will be read by the second python script.

command-bridge3.6 : this script runs the simulation using the particles generated by the first python  script.  It will generate all the data and visualization files that can be later used to analyse the results.  If the simulation is interrupted it can be re-started by executing this script alone as it will have generated another filed called lastfile.dat with information about the last recoded step, time ellapsed, universal gravitational constant, total pulling force and pulling increment at the time.  It will generate the DISPLAY, OUTBOX and POSTPRO folder and need to be erased before a different simulation is started to avoid confusion, as well as lastfile.dat and parameters.dat.


To run the simulation, the following commands have to be issued in a terminal:

* To generate the sample (--novisu stops the graphics from opening a window)

python gen_sam-bridge2.5.py --novisu

* This is optional to use up to 4 cores: 

export OMP_SCHEDULE=STATIC 
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=4
export OPENBLAS_NUM_THREADS=1

* To run the simulation:

python command-bridge3.6

The time to run the simulations, as for any DEM code, depends on the number of particles in the system and their complexity.  For the example input files provided here, the simulation should take about 1 week, the longest simulations (polyhedra, 2cm), will take upwards of 6 months in a supercomputer and 4 cores. 

Additionally, there is an analysis script called: PostPro_3D_Paul_V10a.py
This file analyses the data in OUTBOX and writes its results in POSTPRO.  It is these files that are used to generate the plotted data.  It can also generatethe visualization files that can be opened with ParaView.
- Line 23: it usually starts in step 10 to avoid the accretion part of the simulation
- Line 24: the final step of the simulation (first number in lastfile.dat)
- Line 25: 1 for polyhedra and 2 for spheres (IMPORTANT!!!)

The complete dataset generated by all the simulations carried out with this code can be found at  https://doi.org/10.25810/1qjw-dd77
